.TH SHWEBP 1 "June 2025" "Version 0.1.0" "Image Converter Script Manual"
.SH NAME
shwebp \- Convert images (JPG, PNG, TIFF, HEIC, HEIF) to WebP using cwebp
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shwebp
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBshwebp\fR is a Bash script that converts image files (JPG, PNG, TIFF, HEIC, HEIF) to the efficient WebP format using \fBcwebp\fR and, where needed, \fBheif-convert\fR.

It supports recursive processing, logging, dry-run mode, adjustable quality, silent-mode, force overwrite and selection of source and destination directories.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-R\fR
Process directories recursively.
.TP
\fB-q\fR \fI1-100\fR
Set WebP quality (default: 75, lowest: 1, highest: 100).
.TP
\fB-l\fR
Enable logging. Logs are saved in \fI~/.shscripts/shwebp\fR.
.TP
\fB--dry-run\fR
Simulate conversions without changing files.
.TP
\fB-f\fR
Force overwrite existing .webp files.
.TP
\fB-s\fR \fI"dir1,dir2"\fR
Specify comma-separated list of source directories.
.TP
\fB-t\fR \fI"target-dir"\fR
Specify a target directory for converted files.
.TP
\fB-S, --silent\fR
Suppress terminal output (only logs will be written).
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Display help and usage information.
.TP
\fB-v, --version\fR
Show script version and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
Convert all JPG/PNG/TIFF images in current directory:
.br
\fBshwebp\fR

Convert recursively with quality 85 and logging:
.br
\fBshwebp -R -q 85 -l\fR

Dry-run for two folders with custom target:
.br
\fBshwebp -s "images,photos" -t "webp_out" --dry-run\fR

.SH AUTHOR
Heiko <kontakt@schnitzler-heiko.de>

.SH LICENSE
This software is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 (GPLv3).
See https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cwebp (1),
.BR heif-convert (1)
